---  
activity_type:  
  - Raid  
activity_name: Deep Stone Crypt  
aliases:  
  - DSC Crypt Security  
share: "true"  
---  
  
> [!tldr]  
> - Pick up operator to start  
> - Kill scanner on dark side and find glowing panels  
> - Operator open hallway  
> - Scanner moves to light and scans panels  
> - Operator goes to basement  
> - Shoot panels  
> - Pass Operator up and Scanner down  
> - Scan fuses  
> - Upstairs shoot fuses  
> - Either one phase or send scanner up and let ex-op up as well  
  
___  
  
## Notes  
  
### Team Setup  
  
- Guardians will be split up into two teams of thre. One on light side, one on dark.  
- One guardian designated as <font color="#dddea1">scanner</font>.  
- One guardian designated as first <font color="#d99694">operator</font>.  
  
> [!sherpa] Sherpa Notes  
> One thing I might do is have New Lights swap roles, even if not necessary. This might mean to force the encounter to go on longer than it might typically take.  
>  
> This also means assigning different scanners and operators each round.  
  
### Details  
  
Starting from the back of the room (closest to operator hallway), panels on each side are numbered 1-5.  
  
In the basement, there are six fuses total, three on each side. These are found next to the augmentation terminal and face towards their respective rooms. So three facing the dark side (heh), and three facing the light.  
  
Since the encounter doesn't start until the operator buff is picked up from the terminal, take some time to learn where the panels are both in the basement and from the glass panels above.  
  
There are a few alternative methods to this, so they'll be listed by the relevant parts.  
  
### Loadouts  
  
A lot of add clear and some form of hard hitting LMG like Xeno for fuses.  
  
There will also be overload champions that spawn so having some way to take care of them is necessary.  
  
----  
  
## Part 1: As Above  
  
The encounter starts whenever the <font color="#d99694">red</font> <font color="#d99694">operator</font> buff is picked up from the terminal in light side.  
  
Soon after things start, a bunch of adds are gonna spawn as is tradition. Obviously, commit murder.  
After a certain point, a vandal on the dark side will appear with the <font color="#dddea1">yellow scanner</font> buff on his head. Killing him allows a guardian to pick it up and begin using it.  
  
—  
  
The scanner will begin to find which panels in the basement are glowing from the windows above. There are four in total. Two on light, two on dark.  
  
Some of them can be a pain in the ass to see. So definitely get a feel for these ahead of time as mentioned at the beginning.  
  
Starting from the back of the room (furthest away from entrance), these panels should be counted as 1-5 on their respective side. So callouts look something like "Dark 1", etc. It's typically best practice to write this in the chat as D1 for example.  
  
The chat log might look something akin to:  
`D1, D2`  
`L3, L5`  
  
—  
  
From here, the operator will shoot the panel in the back of the room to open a hallway where the scanner can then go to the light side to find the panels there in the same way.  
  
> [!alt] Alternative Method  
> Some teams will decide to pass the scanner from one side to the other for someone else to look for the panels, basically giving the job to two different guardians. This is a valid method and if it works best for your team, go with that.  
  
---  
  
## Part 2: So Below  
  
After all four panels have been noted, the operator should then go downstairs to shoot each one.  
  
Make sure to note where the fuse locations are as well as the terminal for transferring the buffs. These are obviously important.  
  
Fuses are separated by light and dark sides, so three fuses each.  
  
> [!deadly] Oh God Why am I on Fire?!  
>  
> Immediately upon opening the door to the basement, a hidden timer starts. Once this timer ends after a few minutes, fire will begin to spread killing anyone inside.  
>  
> This is especially true after the first phase of dps as the timer will all but automatically start at the beginning of the next phase.  
  
  
—  
  
Immediately after, the operator should run to the terminal by the fuses and deposit the buff.  
  
Players upstairs need to *immediately* grab this and send the scanner buff down to be picked up. Basically we're swapping operator for scanner.  
  
Dps is approaching! For the sake of practicality though, the teams upstairs will stay on their respective light and dark sides. There's no real need to try to have everyone rotate between the rooms and lose dps time.  
  
> [!careful] Why Aren't the Terminals Working?!  
>  
> If for some reason no one is able to use the terminal to transfer buffs, there is definitely a servitor around on one of the sides. Kill it immediately to regain access. This is important due to timing so always stay on the lookout and call it out if need be!  
>  
> Side note: on the opposite side of the servitor, an overload champion will spawn. Be careful!  
  
—  
  
The basement dweller should look at the six fuses and tell the upstairs which to shoot. Here's a quick example:  
  
- Scanner sees the left fuse for the dark side is the one that needs shot. They'll call out `dark left`.  
- The guardians on the dark side upstairs proceed to shoot the matching one til it pops.  
- Scanner then notices that the light side has its middle fuse lit up. They'll call out `light mid`.  
- Light side shoots the matching fuse until it pops.  
  
Do whatever callouts work best for you, whether it's middle, left, right or not.  
  
> [!deadly] Oh Shit! Wrong Fuse!  
>  
> Be super careful when dealing with the fuses as shooting the wrong one will be a wipe.  
>  
> *This includes splash damage from weapons*  
>  
> Make absolutely sure that you keep this in mind.  
  
—  
  
These days, most teams will be able to one phase this and end things there. However, if not:  
  
- The guardian in the basement should put their scanner buff in the terminal and someone upstairs should grab it.  
- The reading upstairs should happen again with the new operator on standby.  
- When ready, the new operator will open the door to the downstairs and find / shoot the proper panels.  
  
> [!alt] Alternative Method  
>  
> Some teams will wait until the first set of callouts from the scanner has been done before sending the new operator down. This is a great method if you find the operator / former basement dweller on fire too many times between phases.  
  
You only have a max of about three times to do this before a wipe, so keep that in mind. Other than that, that's the whole encounter!  
  
Huzzah!  
  
Now go meet [[./3. Atraks-1, Fallen Exo|Atraks]] in space.  
