---  
activity_type:  
  - Raid  
activity_name: Deep Stone Crypt  
aliases:  
  - DSC Rapture  
share: "true"  
---  
  
> [!tldr]  
> - Kill adds  
> - Take all three augments  
> - Operator shoots panel  
> - Suppressor shoots boss under floating bits  
> - Scanner sees where to dunk  
> - Guardians dunk nukes in proper location  
> - Repeat til done, swapping augments when necessary  
  
___  
  
## Notes  
  
### Team Setup  
  
There's no specific division needed here really. However if you want to be organized you can always do three groups of two:  
- Two operators  
- Two scanners  
- Two suppressors (this is a new one!)  
  
> [!sherpa] Sherpa Notes  
> This one can be a little chaotic to set up so New Lights can get a chance to try every role. I would organize it in a way that works like one of the challenges, namely, have them take a new augment every rotation.  
>  
> For example someone new might take operator to start, then take scanner, then suppressor. This would mean someone might have to deposit the buff in a terminal whether it's been disabled or not.  
  
I'll note though, even if you don't have specific groups assigned, it's typically best to have guardians spread out between the the different sections for the sake of coverage.  
  
### Details  
  
Augments are back and have a random chance to become disabled this time around. This is why some fireteams split into three groups, to ensure each role has a dedicated backup.  
  
Take note of the three augment terminals, three suppressor points, and three operator panels with one of each found in different sections of the arena. This is why being spread out is a good thing to do.  
  
In the middle there are four containers. It is *very* important to establish proper callouts for these so guardians know which ones to go to when the time comes (details on this in [[4. Rapture#Part 2 Space Jam|part 2]].)  
  
Some common callouts:  
  
| Far left | Far right |  
| :--: | :--: |  
| Close left | Close right |  
  
| Back left | Back right |  
| :--: | :--: |  
| Front left | Front right |  
  
| L2 | R2 |  
| :--: | :--: |  
| L1 | R1 |  
  
| Window left | Window right |  
| :--: | :--: |  
| Banner left | Banner right |  
  
Obviously there are infinite options here. These are just the more common ones I've seen / used.  
  
### Loadouts  
  
Add clear for days.  
  
----  
  
## Part 1: Roleplaying  
  
This encounter has a lot of moving parts to say the least, but isn't that complex. It doesn't really matter who has what augment, only the role each one plays. So this first section is primarily going to be defining those.  
  
—  
  
To start the encounter, guardians just need to approach our buddy Taniks standing atop the platform in front of the rally point / the back of the room. This is gonna make a shit ton of adds venture forth and try to recruit you to join their cause. Obviously soliciting isn't allowed, so do what you do best.  
  
Vandals will spawn in random locations with the different augments over their heads. There will be three total comprising of our traditional operator and scanner alongside our newest addition, suppressor.  
  
If you have assigned specific guardians for these roles, it's best practice for folks to call them out as they appear so that those assigned can grab their augment in a timely manner, i.e "Operator is over here!"  
  
> [!alt] Alternative Method  
> As mentioned in the [[4. Rapture#Team Setup|Team Setup]] section, some fireteams don't assign specific roles and go for more of a "dibs" approach. This is perfectly fine for most teams and is how I've normally done it unless someone wants to do something specific.  
>  
> If this is the case for your group, just have people call out that they've got that specific augment instead.  
  
After a minute or two, a klaxon will sound signaling that **three nukes** are getting ready to spawn in the various terminals across the arena.  
  
The overall goal is to take those nukes and dunk them in two of the four containers in the center of the room. A few things need to happen first though, all at the same time. So buckle in.  
  
—  
  
### Operator  
  
Operator here has an easy but important role. They're gonna see three glowing panels next to some terminals around the arena. As with previous encounters, they're gonna shoot one.  
  
What this does is prevent one of the nukes from spawning in. Why is this important? Well you see...  
  
> [!deadly] Too Many Nukes in the Kitchen!  
> There are only two places to dunk the nukes. Having a third nuke means the team will wipe as they're on a timer when left alone.  
  
### Scanner  
  
Another super important job here! The scanner will look at the four containers in the middle and see which two are glowing.  
  
They need to *immediately* call these out so their teammates can dunk in the proper locations. Make sure they use the callouts your team established for this.  
  
Dunking in the wrong one will result in death so be hella careful. Communication is absolutely key here as scanner.  
  
### Suppressor  
  
I guess all these jobs are important, huh? The suppressors job is to stand under each of the three floating drones in the arena and shoot Taniks to stun him when he glows blue.  
  
Why is this important? **Guardians who are going to dunk the nukes cannot do so until Taniks is stunned**.  
  
This is very fast paced and they do not need to be under each one for long. It's easiest to start from one side of the arena and move across in a line.  
  
—  
  
Alright cool, everyone did a thing. But what about those poor nukes that need a home?  
  
---  
  
## Part 2: Space Jam  
  
You see, this is a pun about that 90's movie with the Looney Toons playing basketball against aliens. Get it? Cause the guardians have to dunk things in space?  
  
No? Anyway, since I've murdered that joke let's move on.  
  
So our friendly scanner has called out which containers require a nuke to be fed to them. Great.  
  
Two guardians will need to pick these up and proceed to book it towards the containers. It does not matter who does this, it just needs to be done.  
  
On the way there , the two should communicate which ones they're going to as time is of the essence here.  
  
> [!deadly] Slowly, but Surely!  
> Guardians who have picked up these orbs of death and destruction will be slowed down. They will also gain a cool debuff called **Radiation** that will kill someone when it reaches **ten** stacks.  
>  
> It's important to note that the nuke will drop if they for and it needs to be picked up and delivered *immediately*.  
  
—  
  
Every guardian, with the exception of the suppressor and *maybe* the scanner, should be clearing adds to help pave the way. They should also be on standby to pick a nuke up in case something goes awry like one of the bomb disposal folks dying or one of them needing to drop their nuke due to **Radiation**.  
  
> [!careful] There's no RadAway?!  
> Stacks of **Radiaton** do not simply go away. They go away over time. If a guardian is at, say, seven stacks or so they absolutely need to communicate this so someone can take over for them.  
  
During add clear, be careful of overload champions that spawn! They can be a bit of a pain.  
  
Yay! Now we do this five more times to finish things.  
  
However.  
  
> [!careful] Wait Where's My Augment?!  
> Between each round, there is a potential for any guardian with an augment to see a debuff saying **Augment Disabled** on their screen. It is absolutely necessary to pay attention to this.  
>  
> If and when it happens, the guardian with the debuff will need to go to the terminal closest to them and deposit the augment so someone else can pick it up and take over.  
  
  
---  
  
Once you've done this whole rigamarole six times, a chamber in the center will drop down where everyone should turn around and say [[./5. Taniks, the Abomination|hi to Taniks again!]]