---  
title: Morgeth, the Spirekeeper  
filename: "[[3. Morgeth, the Spirekeeper]]"  
activity_type:  
  - Raid  
activity_name: Last Wish  
aliases:  
  - LW Morgeth  
share: "true"  
---  
  
> [!tldr] tl;dr  
>  
> - The team needs to gather ten **Taken Strength** between all six members over two waves.  
> - One person each wave will get detained. Free them.  
> - Do unholy amounts of dps to one phase Morgeth.  
  
----  
  
## Notes  
  
### Team Setup  
  
Guardians should split up into two teams of three.  
 - Three guardians on the left side  
 - Three on the right.  
  
### Details  
  
Here's the basic rundown of it all:  
- One guardian to take first and last strength.  
- One guardian on each side to collect 2 orbs during each phase.  
- One cleanser on each side. Note that on second phase there will only be one cleanser.  
  
This is another type of encounter where it seems a lot more complicated than it really is.  
  
### Loadouts  
  
Loadouts should primarily add clearing, heavy slot should have Whisper or nice LFR unless doing the alternate strat.  
  
----  
  
## Part 1: Strengths  
  
The encounter begins with a guardian taking one the blights in front of Morgeth. This gives that player the **Taken Strength** debuff and begins wave one.  
  
> [!deadly] Power Creep  
> You will start to see a message on the left that says "Morgeth is at x% strength". If it reaches 100%, it's a wipe. Leaving blights on the ground makes this speed up.  
  
—  
  
#### Wave 1  
  
Murder those pesky adds and two blights will spawn on either side of the map.  
  
One guardian from each side should grab two taken strengths and head towards the middle.  
  
> [!deadly] Don't Get Too Strong!  
> Absolutely no one can have more than two stacks of taken strength at a time. This will result in automatic death.  
  
—  
  
When all four blights are collected, one of the two guardians will become detained which starts a *20 second death timer*.  
  
Captains named **The Eye of Riven** will spawn during this.  
  
Kill them to spawn an orb that gives the **Taken Essence** debuff. The orbs can despawn, so be careful.  
   
Typically they spawn one on each side, but they can sometimes appear on a single side. Guardians should call them out as they see them.  
   
Whichever cleanser is closest will need to grab an orb, go up to the detained guardian, and *press their grenade button*.  
  
> [!deadly] Stacks on Stacks!  
>  
> Whoever is cleansing must have *zero* stacks of taken strength. Cleansing transfers the stacks of the debuff.  
>  
> So if a guardian being cleansed has two stacks, they will give that to the cleanser.  
>  
> This means that if whoever is cleansing has one stack, they now have three total and die.  
>  
> It is also important that no other guardian is standing near whoever is detained so they don't transfer their stacks as well.  
  
The guardian who was cleansed is now the new cleanser. Congrats.  
  
—  
  
#### Wave 2  
  
Basically this is the same as the first wave so I won't repeat myself. The only differences are:  
  
Whoever was detained last is now the one and only cleanser. Don't be scared, it'll be okay, I promise.  
   
Once the last person is cleansed, a single blight will spawn in the middle. The guardian who started the encounter will take this blight and dps begins.  
  
> [!alt] Alternative Method  
>  
> There is another way to do this encounter by forcing a specific person to get taken each time. It goes like this for each wave:  
>  
> 1. Guardian A on the left side picks up two  
> 2. Guardians B and C on the right each pick up one.  
>  
> Morgeth will then only take whoever has two, making it easier on the cleanser. Honestly, to me, it doesn't really matter either way. Whatever works, works.  
  
----  
  
## Part 2: DPS  
  
This is easy enough. We're gonna one phase him.  
  
There are two ways to go about it:  
  
Have everyone pile at the end opposite of Morgeth with snipers like Whisper or a nice LFR. Pop a well and shoot the glowing hunch on his back til he's dead.  
  
**OR**  
  
Everyone pile to Morgeth's back, pop a well, and use shotguns, fusions, swords, etc til he's dead.  
  
EZPZ yeah?  
  
Next up is ~~hell~~ [[./4. The Vault|The Vault]]