---  
activity_type:  
  - Raid  
activity_name: Last Wish  
aliases:  
  - LW Riven  
share: "true"  
---  
  
> [!tldr]  
> - Fall down to Riven  
> - Go to crystal room and see if her shadow appears  
> - If yes, murder  
> - If no, exit room and hug right wall to teleport to starting room  
> - Go down right side shafts x2  
> - Murder  
> - Jumping puzzle  
> - More murder  
  
---  
  
## Notes  
  
### Team Setup  
  
No real setup here, we're cheesin' it this time!  
  
### Details  
  
Really, I honestly don't know the legit way. Just be prepared to wipe a few times til we get it I suppose.  
  
### Loadouts  
  
**If you're attacking her feet**: Someone with Well and enough Laments to be of concern. Also something long range for final stand.  
  
**If you're shooting her in the face**: Whisper or an LFR I suppose. Whatever works. Bring Well for this too.  
  
----  
  
## The Cheese  
  
So this is gonna be easy  
  
**First**:  
  
Float downstairs, saying hi to Riven on the way. Glide over to the doorway with the crystal by it  
  
**Next**:  
  
Inside the main room, face the black wall and see if Riven's shadow appears. If yes, go to dps.  
  
**If Not**:  
  
Exit the room and hug the ice wall to the right to get the `Joining Allies` message. This will take you back up to the main room. Head to the **right** and go down a few levels.  
  
In this next room, DPS will begin  
  
**DPS**:  
  
- Stand by her foot  
- Plant Well  
- Unleash the fury of 1000 ~~suns~~ Laments  
- During final stand, commit more atrocities with something long range  
- Go inside her corpse and beat up her heart  
  
***DONE***  
  
But wait, there's more. Time for [[./6. Riven's Heart|Riven's Heart]]  
  
